Today the Insurance Institute is
releasing new front crash prevention
ratings for 24 cars and SUVs.
Automakers are making these systems more
widely available and they're also making
them more effective at preventing crashes.
The advantage of auto brake is that even if
it doesn't prevent the crash, it will
reduce the speed and reducing the speed
reduces the damage to both vehicles
involved and also reduces the likelihood
that anybody in either vehicle will be
hurt.  So the institute rates front crash
prevention systems basic, advanced or
superior.  Basic systems are those that
have forward collision warning that meet
government criteria.  Systems that add
auto braking can earn advanced or
superior ratings depending on their
performance in tests at 12 and 25 miles
per hour.  Our ratings of front crash
prevention systems are based on
prescribed tests conducted here at the
test track.  When we're testing a vehicle
we've instrumented it with cameras,
high-precision GPS that allow us to
measure the position of vehicle, the
speed of the vehicle, the timing of the
warnings, the timing of the activation of
the auto brake and ultimately the speed
reduction that results.  This is an
example of one of our front crash
prevention tests.  We'll drive straight at
the fake car at 12 miles per hour, listen
for the warning but I will not respond and
we'll see if the auto brake keeps us
from crashing.  There's a warning (beeping sound)
and the auto brake.  We're already seeing
improvements from automakers since we
launched our front crash prevention
ratings in 2013. Last year when we tested
the BMW 3 Series we saw no evidence of
its auto breaking capability in our 12
mile per hour test.  The new and improved
system on the 2014 model reduces the
speed by seven miles per hour in this
very same condition but an even better
system is available on the BMW X5 SUV
and five series sedan.  It avoids crashing
under this condition entirely.  Modern
vehicles are designed to protect people
when crashes happen.  Front crash
prevention systems aim to prevent many
common crashes from occurring in the
first place.